What is the most beautiful throw in judo to you?
I think UCI ma you know, it's the,
it's the one that seems to have the most amplitude that person goes the highest.
You see a leg swing through the middle, uh, the person doing the throw,
there's a leg swinging through the middle. The other person definitely goes,
you know, head over heels, flat on their back. Um,
it's probably the most dynamic, pretty judo.
Throw there is. Okay. So it's a single,
you're standing on a single foot and you're raising your other foot in the air
and it's a forward throw, which means the, uh, your,
your back is facing the opponent. But, uh,
they kind of both fly through the air and twist who they are. Correct.
Yeah. So how does that throw work?
What are the principles behind that throw is one of those throws that, um,
you know,
people can kind of understand how to pick up another human being in sort of
trivial ways, but the H model to me, never quite made sense,
like why it works, that there's a, there's a cork, there's a twisting motion.
Mm-hmm, <affirmative>, there's some involvement of the hip mm-hmm <affirmative>,
but not,
it's not really a hip throw because the hip is not all the way over,
so it's not, it, it, it's a very confusing throw. <laugh> I'm trying to say,
can you say something.
It's probably one of the most difficult throws to learn as well,
because it is so comp legs, you do have to stand on one leg balance on one leg,
you know, swing your other leg through the middle,
hold your opponent up in the air. And as, and it's hard to,
it's hard to make that contact with upper body to your, to your back. You know,
you have to turn your back on the throw as well. So how does it work? Um,
it's definitely sort of a,
a throw you need to start pulling your opponents upper body towards
you, right? So their upper body starts coming towards you.
Your legs go towards them as your body starts to go, uh, to,
into the throat. So your head is gonna go left. Let's say your body,
your legs are gonna go to the right, your body's,
your partner's gonna to lean towards you.
And just as you start to get their momentum coming forward,
your leg is gonna sweep up underneath theirs, pick 'em up onto your hip. Right.
And then the finish of the throw is a twist.
And a lot of times the good judoka will leave their feet when they do the throw.
So both bodies are in the air together,
and then the thrower comes down on top of, of the person.
Being thrown. So all four feet are in the air. Correct.
So there's just this unstoppable force to it. So you're all in the air. You're,
you're basically doing a role together, correct. Okay.
So who to you is the best Che who has the,
besides yourself? Uh.
I'm not gonna lie. There's is plenty of guys at do Shama a lot better than I.
Do. Uh, you do have a nice video about Thema online, but, uh, who,
who's a great practitioner of Thema.
To you right now? JohE Ohno. Who's two time Olympic gold medalist.
That's his favorite throw. And he there's, uh,
tons of highlight videos on the IGF and Jude fanatics showing how he does his
Zada. And it is quite different than everybody else's. Um,
but it's unstoppable when, when he comes in,
nobody stops it he's won two gold in, in a row at the Olympics.
I think maybe in the last eight years, the guys lost two is, you know,
he's just incredible. So at a very.
Competitive division, I guess some 73 kilos. Okay.